All right, good morning.
It's great to be here.
This is AppleScript Studio in Depth,
session 406.
It's terrific to see so many
people here on a Friday morning
at 9:00 in the morning,
particularly since the
Apple campus bash was last night.
So thank you for being here and
so bright and early this morning.
And my name, of course, is Tim Bumgarner.
I'm a senior software engineer at Apple.
Thank you.
This is actually our fifth year at
presenting at at Developer Conference for
AppleScript Studio,
so it's been five years old.
That's how long I've been at Apple,
actually,
so it's sort of a little milestone there.
And let's take a look at our agenda.
So we're going to just go
through a brief introduction.
Then we're going to have a hands-on
project that we're going to work through,
and then a little bit of
information about where you can
find out better documentation or
improved documentation for Studio.
And hopefully,
we'll have some time left so that we
can do a question and answer at the end.
All right.
So in order to do the introduction,
I need to do one of those little
surveys to sort of gauge where
we're at as far as experience.
So how many people are
new to AppleScript Studio?
Wow.
That's awesome.
Cool.
Glad to have you here.
So that makes my job a little harder.
We get to go a little slower.
That's great, though.
It's good to know that.
How many people have actually
built a Studio application?
Okay, good.
And how many have actually
shipped a Studio application?
Okay,
those of you that have your hands up,
do you realize that it is simply
a matter of checking a box,
turning on Intel, recompile,
and ship your application
and you're on Intel.
There won't be any other work to do.
I've actually went into the labs
and tested all the Studio examples.
They all work perfectly.
So it's very simple for you to
develop a universal application.
So we actually get to take advantage
of the fact that we're scripting
using AppleScript on top of Cocoa.
So why would you want to
use AppleScript Studio?
Well, it's an easier approach to
creating Macintosh applications.
If you're not comfortable
with the regular programming
languages like Objective-C or C++,
AppleScript is a very
approachable language,
and so it's a very easy way
to put together real native
Macintosh applications.
And it's also excellent at
doing rapid prototyping.
You might want to put together an example
of what your application should do,
and it's very quick to wire together
the things using AppleScript Studio.
And it also works very well and mixes
in with other development languages.
So inside of Xcode,
as you're using AppleScript,
you can pull in a little bit of
Objective-C or C++ or Java code.
Some of the common uses that we find
people using Studio for is to put
a friend front end on Unix tools.
So they have some tool
that they want to expose.
And it's very simple to
put a UI in front of that.
And using the do Shell script
command in Apple Script,
they can take advantage
of the Unix tools.
We also find that it's
a great application for
working inside of a workflow.
Apple Script Studio, of course,
is built on Apple Script.
It is excellent at talking to
other scriptable applications.
And so it makes a very good center for
talking to the various applications to
provide a workflow in your environment.
Another thing that we found
is people have spent a lot of
time writing Apple Scripts.
And in order to provide any sort of UI,
they end up doing display dialog.
So I'm sure you may have
seen some scripts that just
kept asking me with a dialog,
answer one question,
answer another question,
and find that it goes
off and does its thing.
So what they do is they can take Studio,
take their existing script,
and put a nice UI in front of that.
And then go ahead and let it run.
And of course, the most exciting thing,
which we saw in Todd's demo yesterday,
is that you can use
Apple Script Studio to
create Automator actions.
As a matter of fact,
a good many of the actions
that we ship in Automator use
Apple Script Studio to talk to
various UI elements in the action.
So this is a hands-on format.
Unfortunately,
there's a technical difficulty,
so the code that I have
is just a little newer.
And that's-- what we're going to do
is we're going to take this lemon,
and we're going to make a
little lemonade out of it.
So I'm going to show you the old
code and compare it to the new code,
and the differences.
You'll still be able to follow along.
And this is where I'm
going to do another survey.
So how many people would like to actually
walk through and build the app with me?
Okay, great.
So, there's quite a few hands.
So,
that's what we're going to attempt to do.
I'll try to go slow enough.
If I go too fast, I never do that.
Ever.
Let me know.
So, raise your hand, holler out.
Well, I won't see your hand,
but go ahead and holler out.
Tell me I'm going too fast.
It's a little tough to see the screen.
I'll try to zoom in as best as I can.
But if I get too far ahead,
just let me know.
So, it's a very interactive thing.
We'll go ahead and do it that way.
So, you should have the session material.
If you don't have that,
there's no way you'll be able to keep
up because I won't be typing anything.
I'll use demo assistant.
But in your session material,
there's an outline,
an OmniOutliner outline or a PDF, or RTF,
I'm sorry.
And you can copy out the
bits of code that you need.
It's very clear where to do that.
But if you don't have that,
you won't be able to follow along.
If you don't, just go ahead and watch me,
and you'll be able to
pick these up later.
Now,
we will make the newer version that I'm
going to show that we're going to build
will be available after the conference,
hopefully fairly soon after.
So the hands-on project.
So what we're going to do
is we're going to build this
application called ScriptView.
ScriptView is a script editor
with a database built into it.
What we're going to do is demonstrate
new and improved features for Tiger.
And so some of the improved features that
we have are the data sources that we have
that back up outlines and table views.
They've been greatly improved,
much easier to use.
We have also new,
we've added toolbar support.
So it's very simple to create
toolbars in your studio application,
so it's more of a part of the
regular Cocoa application.
We've also added target action support.
So anywhere,
particularly from Cocoa in Objective-C,
where you see that there is a
connection from a target to the action
of a method that needs to execute,
you can now set that up in script.
Typically,
you do this in Interface Builder.
You drag a connection from one
thing to the next and specify it.
Now you can do that in script as well.
And that's important for toolbar support.
We're also going to show you OSA Kit.
This is a new framework.
It's a public framework, Louis Shipp,
that provides the script editor
view and the dictionary view.
And actually,
it's the technology that all
of the studio script editor
and automator are all built on.
So it's actually the same code that we
use is now available for you to use.
And then we're going to look
at some Xcode features for 2.1.
If you have 2.0,
you'll be able to follow along,
but you won't be able to execute these
breakpoint actions that we have now,
which are new in 2.1.
So let's go ahead and take a look
at the application in its final
state so we can see what it's going
to look like when we're finished.
And I'm going to go ahead and just
launch the built product at the end.
Now, it's probably, can you see it?
All right.
All right, excellent.
So let's go ahead and I'm just going to,
it's a script editor that
has a script view here.
The results are going
to get put out here.
And I can add records down into this
table view and we'll see what that does.
So I'm going to type in the wrong place.
We'll go up here, do a current date.
And you can see that it's
actually using the same features
that are in the script editor.
I can hit,
bring up the code completion and
choose current date and hit enter.
And I can compile it, run it.
And you see the results
automatically get put down here.
And I'm going to add that
as a record down here below.
Let's do front window
and simply run that,
add the record.
And you can see that I have two
different records down here.
I can click on that.
And when I do, it puts the script back
into the script view.
So it's a way for me to capture a bunch
of scripts that I have and save them.
And I can save that with the document.
There's also sorting is fully
supported in the table view.
Sort it by date here or if I want
to sort by the source or the result.
And you can see that the toolbar
itself is fully customizable.
I can drag and add
things around as I like.
And I can collapse that if I like.
And it's also a
document-based application,
so again, I can create as many
documents as I'd like.
I can save the document,
and it works just like
you would expect it to do.
So that's the application that we're
going to build as our hands-on project.
[Transcript missing]
So what I have-- let's zoom
out of this for a moment.
I am going to go into
Xcode and minimize that.
And I'm going to choose from
the File menu New Project.
This is whenever I want to
begin a new Xcode project.
I will select that.
And you can see that there are
several different categories of a
lot of different types of things
that I can produce out of Xcode.
The one that we're looking for
is in the Application group.
And there's AppleScript application.
And then there's the
AppleScript document-based application.
So let's choose that one.
Click the Next button.
And then we're going to call
our project Script View.
So it's a capital S, capital V,
Script View.
All right.
And when I'm finished,
I'll go ahead and click
on the Finish button.
And it will open up with a project.
And it will be set up for us.
So there's many things wired
together at the beginning.
One would hope.
Wake up, computer.
Living on a firewire drive.
So here we go.
This is our Xcode project.
And it comes already with a couple
of different scripts set up for us.
This is the document script.
It's the script that's executed
whenever we create a new document.
And right now, it comes with a couple of
handlers that we'll discuss later.
The script view is the one that's
attached to the application itself.
So it's sort of the main script.
We have our resources.
We have here our document
nib and our main menu nib.
The main menu nib is the nib
that contains our menu as
the main application nib.
And the document nib is the
thing that gets created every
time we create a document.
So let's go ahead.
And we're going to go
into Interface Builder.
And the simplest thing to do is to
double click on our document nib.
All right?
So everybody should be
an interface builder.
And we have a window here by default.
It's probably not quite big enough,
so we need to make it just a little bit
bigger here to fit all of our views into.
Now, the first thing we need to do is
put in our script editor view.
Now, OSAKit provides a palette for us.
And unfortunately,
it is not installed by default.
You actually have to go add that the
first time that you want to use that.
But it's very simple to do.
You go to the Tools menu,
go to the Palette submenu,
and pick Palette Preferences.
And when we bring that open,
it takes us to the palettes panel.
And we click the Add button.
And what it does is it takes
us to the default location.
This default location is generally
in your developer-- your system
developer palettes folder.
So anything that's in that folder
will automatically be loaded by IB.
And you can see that that includes, like,
the Studio palette, Sherlock, and others.
But we're going to go back
one level up to developer,
select the extras group.
And inside of the extras folder-- inside
of the extras folder is the palettes.
And you can see there's actually quite a
few extra palettes here that you can add.
The AB palette is for the address
book if you want to actually
drag in a people chooser.
The automator palette is right here.
But the one we're looking
for is the OSA palette.
So I'm going to go ahead and
select that and choose open.
And you can see what
it did is over here--
is an expert in the field of
web analytics and web analytics.
He's been working on a number of projects
that work with each of these views,
and he's been working on a
number of projects that work
with each of these views.
And I'm not going to reposition it yet.
I'm just going to go
ahead and drag that in.
What's going to be a little more
difficult is I'll have to zoom out
and bring this window over here.
So we can follow along
closer in the Zoom mode.
And I'm going to take a script controller
and drag that into our project.
The script controller is what
interacts with the script view.
Now that takes care of that part of it.
Now what we need is we
need a results view.
And that simply can be just a text view.
So I switch to the text palette,
drag out a text view,
All right.
We'll set that down about
here for the moment.
Now,
the next thing we needed at the bottom
of our application in the window,
in the document window, was a table view.
So we'll switch over
to the table palette,
and we'll drag that out.
Right pace?
Are we doing all right?
All right, cool.
If I don't hear you screaming,
I'm just going to assume all is well.
So we're going to drag this out,
put it down here towards
about the last third.
[Transcript missing]
And finally,
we'll grab our script view here
at the top and fill that out.
So that sort of gives us our spacing
that we had in the finished product.
Now,
what we need to do is we need to put all
of these views inside of a split view.
And the simplest thing to do
is to go to the Edit menu.
It'll scroll over and cooperate here.
And the Edit menu-- or I'm sorry,
[Transcript missing]
And you can see that now
I do have a split view here.
It's put all three of those
views into a split view.
Now, the last thing we need to do as far
as the split view is concerned is
we need to position it correctly.
Many times I see a lot of applications,
they don't line up the edges
of their views exactly right,
so you get a double border
at the bottom of a toolbar,
sometimes in the corner
they don't match correctly.
So I have a little trick
that I use quite a bit.
And when I created the split view,
it's right in the top left corner.
I move using the arrow keys,
I move it up two pixels by
hitting the up arrow key twice,
and I move it left two pixels.
And then I take the window and resize it.
until it snaps to where the
Aqua guideline says that it should be,
and then I move it back down one
pixel and to the right one pixel.
And that puts the border exactly right.
It'll look very polished,
and look much more professional.
So that takes care of the first
part of setting up our view.
Now we actually need to wire together
our script view and the result view.
And the way that you do that in interface
builder is you hold down the control key,
and you click on the script controller
object down here in our objects view.
And I'm going to drag a
connection up to the script view.
And you see that it gives
me some feedback that I've
dragged it to the right thing.
And when I let go of it,
it's actually going to open
up the inspector for us.
See if I can't reposition all this.
Working in zoom view is so much fun.
All right.
So, and let's say I actually lost
my connection when I did that,
so I'll have to hook it up again.
And you can see there
it gives me two outlets.
One is the result view,
and one is the script view.
So I select the script view
and click the connect button.
So that's made that connection,
and I need to make one more.
That's the script view.
Again, holding the control key,
dragging to the text view.
And this time it automatically selects
the result view for me and click connect.
So that takes care of the
connections that we need between
the script view and the result view.
What the script controller
does is as I compile or run,
it will talk to the script controller,
and the script controller will
take the result and put it
into the result view for us.
Now we need to work on our table view.
By default it comes with two columns.
So what I'm going to do is sort of
drill down into this by selecting it,
and see if I can get my resizer here.
It's always fun.
[Transcript missing]
And we make sure we don't have
the table-- columns selected.
We actually want the table view,
and so it's always very important to look
at the inspector and look at the title,
and it tells us what kind
of thing we have selected,
so I have the table view selected.
And I'm going to go ahead and change the
number of columns here in this cell to 5.
And when I do that,
you see that I now have five columns.
We're going to do a couple other things.
We're going to turn on alternating
background for each row,
and we're going to automatically
hide the scrollers as necessary.
So as we add more data,
the scroll bars will appear.
And then we're going to go in here and
just sort of reposition some of these.
Sort of fill up the space appropriately.
Oop, don't drag it.
Okay.
And there we go.
A little wider here,
a little wider there.
Just kind of spread
them out nice and even.
[Transcript missing]
The fourth is result.
And the last one is for our comments.
So we've got that looking pretty well.
That takes care of most of the UI.
The one last thing we need to
do is to select our split view,
because what we need to do is make sure
that it stretches to fit the window.
So for instance,
if I go ahead and test this
interface under the File menu,
Command-R is a shortcut,
you can see it will actually
an interface builder.
I have my split views.
I actually have the script
view is already working.
I didn't have to write any code,
and it just will work for me.
I can do the code
completion here as well.
I can compile as needed.
Splits look good,
but what you'll notice is
that when I resize the window,
the content view of the split
view isn't resizing to fit.
So let's go ahead and quit the test mode,
and by clicking on the
little icon or Command-Q,
we'll do that.
And I'm going to get to my split view,
and again, I check here in my inspector
that I have it selected,
and go to the size.
And what we have is the
auto-sizing mechanism here.
It allows us to tell Cocoa how
it should stretch our views.
And what we want it to do is we
want it to fill up the entire
space inside of the window.
So we turn on both sets of those.
And again, we can test that very
quickly in interface builder
so that you can see that,
as I resize,
now everything stretches and looks great.
So that takes care of the user interface.
We won't have to do much more with that.
And from this point on,
it'll be mostly studio related.
So this is typical interface builder.
So this would be the same if I were
doing Cocoa or if I were doing studio.
So these parts are all the
same things that you work with.
So let's go ahead and save the
document under the File menu.
I'll choose Save.
Now you'll notice that there's
actually an alert that comes up.
And what it says is that if
I save it in this format,
which it's saying is
currently set to be pre-10.2,
then I'll actually lose some data.
And whenever you're going to be
using new features in the OS or in an
interface builder in your Cocoa project,
you have to make sure you
have the right version set.
So I'm going to click Cancel and
go to the project window here.
And there's a nib palette
in Tiger on the far right.
And you'll see that there's a couple
different settings we need to look at.
One is the nib file format.
We need to change that
to 10.2 and later format.
We optionally could use a
text archive if we like,
but we'll just leave that off.
And you'll notice here in the bottom of
the window is it says incompatibilities.
There's seven incompatibilities if we are
setting our earliest target to be 10.2.
What we need to do is
change that to 10.2.
And when we do that,
you'll notice that all the
incompatibilities go away.
It's a good thing that
if you don't do that,
most of what we're going to use
today just flat out doesn't work.
So you need to make sure that
that's set appropriately.
So now I can go ahead and choose Save.
And it will save the document for us.
[Transcript missing]
And when it's finished,
we can go back over to Xcode.
And we're going to build and go.
And I'll just click on
the toolbar item here,
or I can choose it from the build menu.
Build and run, I guess we call it now.
And it's going to build the
application and run it for us.
Now I'll sort of have to zoom
out so we see the whole thing.
And hide it.
So you've noticed, of course,
that we don't have a toolbar yet,
because we haven't got
around to creating that.
But I still, again, have my editor here.
And I can compile that.
I can't run it without a toolbar yet.
We have our results view.
We can see that everything resizes,
so it looks pretty good.
So that takes care of our first steps.
So we're going to stop right
there and continue here.
So, what we did is we went to Xcode,
we created a new project by choosing the
appropriate template for our product.
Then we went into Interface
Builder and built its interface.
And then we wired together the
controller objects as needed,
and then we built and
tested our application.
And this is a typical process.
You go into Interface Builder,
build your interface, go to Xcode,
build and run, and see how you did.
Okay, so the next step is to go ahead and
add a toolbar to our application.
And this is what we're
going to do in this step.
We're going to add some icon resources.
So we saw the toolbar in the finished
product had a bunch of different icons.
So we're going to add
that to the project.
We're going to add an
AwakeFromNib handler.
And this is, for those of you that
are Cocoa programmers,
will recognize the name, AwakeFromNib.
Anytime something gets loaded from a nib,
a method gets called in Cocoa.
It's the same thing for Studio.
If you want that object to
have a handler called for it,
you just simply turn on AwakeFromNib.
Then we're going to go in and
we're going to add the code.
And we're going to add the code
to create a toolbar and its items.
And then we're going to talk
about and use something,
a new feature in Tiger.
It's really an important
concept to understand.
So we're going to talk about
that for just a minute.
This is the idea of a script scope.
So what is a nib script scope?
Up till Tiger,
every instance of your scripts,
there would only ever
be one instance of it.
So for instance,
in a document-based application,
I would create the first document,
and I had document.AppleScript.
When it's built,
it actually ends up as document.SCPT.
is only one instance loaded,
so that when I create another document--
it would actually
reference the same script.
I would only ever have one document.svpt.
And actually that's not a good thing,
because it makes it much
harder to write your code.
So if we switch to a nib script scope,
and we have our first document,
we get one instance.
And the next time we
create the second document,
or load the nib again,
we get a new instance of that.
So you can actually use properties
inside of your script that
reference things in your document.
And it's unique to that
individual document.
It's very powerful.
It's going to be a much
easier way to write your code.
And you'll see that as we go.
And then the last one is there's
actually another scope called Object.
And so you could actually have a
new instance for every element,
or whatever you decide to attach it to,
there's a new instance of that script.
So your code could be much more
modular and take a more natural
use of scripts inside of Studio.
So let's see what it takes
to build that script view.
Or add the toolbar, I'm sorry.
Now, this is where it gets interesting,
because my code is going to
look a little differently.
And hopefully,
I can point out all the differences.
You'll still be able
to build what you have.
And it's going to work just the same,
except I'm going to contrast
the differences and the
improvements between sort of the
pre-TigerWay versus the TigerWay.
So let's go ahead and go
back into Interface Builder.
Double-click on our document nib here.
And what we need to do is
to select our window object.
And that's easy enough to do by
clicking it on the Inspector palette.
And we're actually going to go
through now and name a lot of the
elements inside of our document nib.
And to do that, for AppleScript,
you go to the Inspector and choose
the AppleScript Inspector panel.
And from this point,
we're going to work in
this inspector quite a lot.
We're able to name our objects.
AppleScript loves to be able to talk
to objects inside of the environment,
but it has to do that by
a couple different ways.
It can do it by index,
so I can say document one.
It can do it by name,
or I can say document foo,
or I can do it by ID,
which is another unique
identifier that you can give.
We're going to be using the
name access to our objects.
So for our window,
we don't need to actually name
it in this particular case,
but we do need to turn
on our nib handler,
our AwakeFromNib.
So you see that there's a nib group,
and I simply click on AwakeFromNib.
[Transcript missing]
So by default, it's always set to global
for backwards compatibility.
So you'll have to
remember to set it to nib.
But this, what will happen is that now
when this window is opened,
I get a unique instance
of the document script.
It's not going to just
reuse one instance of that.
It's very important.
So let's do that.
Now we need to kind of go back
and name all of our objects.
What I find is that you
can sort of drill in here,
click on the various different views.
I find it much easier to
go to our document window.
And there's two little controls here.
One is for an icon view.
And one is an outline view.
So I actually switch
it to the outline view.
And if you hold the Option key
down and click on the disclosure
triangle for NSWindow,
it'll automatically
expand all the children.
So now it's very easy for me to
see the structure of my nib and
go name things appropriately.
And so what we need to do
is name our split view.
And so if I go too fast, let me know.
We're going to select
the split view here.
I verify that I've got
the split view selected.
And we're going to name this main.
It's all lowercase, M-A-I-N.
All right?
Now,
you'll see that here's our script view,
our result view as a text view,
and they're inside of scroll views,
and in order to access them,
we need to name all of them.
And the technique that I use is
I named the script view-- we're
going to use a lowercase script,
capital V for view.
So I'm going to name that script
view simply "script view."
And I always name the scroll view
that it contains the same thing,
so I don't have to think about
what it's actually named.
And so I'm just going to copy and
paste that for that scroll view.
Let's go down to the text view.
And we're going to name this
one result view-- again,
lowercase result,
uppercase V for view-- and copy that.
And select the scroll
view for the result view,
and name it result view.
All right, the last piece down
here is the table view.
And we're going to call
this one script table.
Again, lowercase script,
uppercase T for table.
And we copy that,
name the outline of the view
that it's-- or the school view
that it's in to script table.
All right.
Everybody keeping up?
We awake?
Okay, great.
So we have our table columns.
We need to name these table columns
as well so that our data source
will be able to find the appropriate
column when we get to that point.
So I select the first one,
and that's date.
And we're going to prepend all
of these with a lowercase script.
So it's just script and then date.
So I'm going to copy, actually,
the script so I don't have
to retype it every time.
We're going to select the name column,
script, paste that in,
uppercase N for name.
Do the same for source.
I typed it.
I forgot I can paste.
All right, the result.
And the last one is the comments.
Did I make any mistakes, Sal?
Am I all right?
Okay.
Everybody there?
Because if you don't have these right,
your script's not going to work.
And unfortunately,
we won't be able to come around and
get your code working like we do
in our normal early bird sessions.
So hopefully you've got all that.
And also remember,
in the session material,
we have all of the steps.
And each step is the end of that step.
So if you get lost, you can always,
when we finish up at
step one or step two,
you can grab the last one prior to that.
That puts you at the beginning
point or at the end point.
So if you have a problem,
just go up to the next
step and start from there.
So let's go ahead and save that.
And what we need to do is to go
ahead and implement our Awake
from Nib handler that we created.
So I'm going to go ahead and
just make sure that we've got
that on our window object.
And here it's -- go ahead.
We've got our Nib and
we've got our document.
And it's set to the
script -- scope of Nib.
And so I'm going to go ahead
and click on the edit button.
And this will take me back.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
And you can see that I have
my Awake from Nib handler.
It was automatically inserted
to the script for me.
I didn't have to remember what its name
was or what the actual parameters to it.
It just inserts it for me.
And I am going to use my
fancy-dancy demo monkey here.
And I'm going to actually add a
piece of code that you don't have,
and we're going to talk about
that here in just a second.
So I'm going to paste that in.
What I've done in this is taking
advantage of that nib scope,
and I've set up some properties,
because these are the objects
that I'm going to communicate
with regularly in my script.
I'm going to be working with the data
source that's behind the table view.
I'm going to be working
with the script view,
the result view, and the table view.
And so by doing this,
I can have these references.
And in the AwakeFromNib,
we assign those references,
and we only need to do it once.
And then whenever I need to
talk to one of those objects
throughout the rest of the script,
it's just a matter of
using this property.
Now, that's compared to the code that you
actually will have on your sample,
where it will have, like,
script view foo of scroll
view bar of window main,
and after a while,
it just becomes a foobar mess.
So it's -- and you have to keep
those updated after a while.
Every time you change the hierarchy,
you would have to go through every
instance that you use that and fix it.
So this is a much better technique.
And remember that you get -- this
is a unique instance of this for
every document that's created
because we use that nib scope.
All right.
Let's go down to the AwakeFromNib.
Now this code you do have,
and it's in your outline view,
or you can grab that
code and paste it in.
And I'm going to go ahead and --
quickly type in this code,
and then we're going to walk through it.
So I'll compile it.
Has everybody got the code copied in?
All right.
So your code will look
a little more like this,
that you just pasted in.
from this point on down here,
make toolbar.
It's very much the same code,
so this will look similar
as we're walking through it,
and I'll try to highlight the
differences if I can remember them.
All right,
so the first thing we do is we're
going to make a new toolbar.
This is a new object in
Tiger for AppleScript Studio,
and we use the typical make new,
and what type of thing we
want is to make a new toolbar,
and it has several properties.
One of them is the name.
This one's very important.
You have to have a unique
identifier for your toolbar.
In this case, we just call it the
document toolbar identifier,
and there's various
other properties here.
Now, you may not understand or
know what all the various
properties are for your toolbar,
so there's actually a resource
as part of your project,
and if you look in the resources section,
there's an AppleScript kit definition,
SDEF,
and that actually uses our new dictionary
viewer that's a part of the script
editor as well as... part of Xcode,
and what I love about it is it's
very simple to find things now,
so if I want to learn about a toolbar,
I just simply go to the search field,
type in toolbar, and I can see that I've
got a toolbar class.
Now, I'll zoom this up so you can see
a little better all the various
properties that a toolbar knows about.
So these are the allowed identifiers,
default identifiers,
we're going to fill that out,
what the display mode currently is,
our size mode,
and whether or not it's visible.
So that's all controllable
through AppleScript.
It's very simple.
to use.
So I'm going to move back to the code.
[Transcript missing]
Anyone?
The window, exactly.
So we attach the Awake from
Nib handler to the window,
and when it gets called,
the object is the window.
So we are just simply getting the
full path to that script view.
Now, I actually could have written this,
so I didn't even do that.
I could have attached the Awake
from Nib to the script view,
checked its name,
and then assigned the property.
And in the entire script,
I would never have to say,
blah-de-blah of blah-de-blah
of blah-de-blah.
But just to make this
simpler to walk through,
I've showed you the difference there.
Okay, now we've got those assigned,
and it actually does make one thing here,
and it's a call method.
And the controller object that we drug in
is actually attached to the script view.
And I'm using what's known
as an Objective-C backdoor
for AppleScript Studio.
And I've never been so grateful in
my life when I added this feature,
because it's been one way to work around,
you know, things that we didn't have
completely covered yet in Studio.
So I can always point you to
this thing called call method.
And what it does is it sends
an Objective-C message to
the script view and says,
give me your controller.
And then I just simply send it.
save a reference to that.
All right,
now let's look at the toolbar items.
So I'm making each new toolbar item.
And I make it at the end of the existing
toolbar items of the DocumentToolbar.
Again, the DocumentToolbar was the
thing that we just created.
And it as well has many
different properties.
Here's a very important one,
the identifier.
Again, this identifier needs to
match all the way through.
So this is the one for the compile.
This is the name that I give it, compile,
if I want to refer to that
toolbar item in the script.
It's actually called compile item.
This is the label.
This is what the user sees in the
toolbar when they have it showing.
So that's that label.
The palette label also
has a different entry.
So you can actually have a different
name inside of the customization palette.
A tool tip, which in this case is
called compile script.
That's also dynamically changeable.
So script, you could actually change
your tool tip as you like.
And we have image name
and compile script.
Now,
so for every toolbar item in our toolbar,
we want to make sure it
has the appropriate icon.
So we actually haven't added those yet.
So let's go ahead and do that
right now before I forget.
And if you'll go into
your studio session,
There is a section,
a folder here called Icon Resources.
Okay, so you want to go to the finder,
find that Icon Resources folder,
and I'm going to simply copy that folder,
and I'm going to go to my home directory,
and here's the ScriptView project that
I'm working on right at the moment,
and I'm going to paste
those Icon Resources in.
So that just copied the folder,
put it over into my project on disk.
Now I actually needed
to add that to Xcode.
Let's see if I can zoom in here.
Well, it won't work.
So let's, I'm going to grab that
Icon Resources folder,
and I'm going to drag it under the
Resources folder in my project.
And when I do that,
it simply asks if I should go
ahead and create these groups.
So I go ahead and click
on the Add button.
TIFFs is the preferred,
but you can use pings.
It should work just fine.
So I just happened to have TIFFs
from--a lot of these actually come
right out of the script editor,
so that's what we use there.
So I can see that I actually
have my compile script TIFF and
this has the compile tool.
So I'm going to go back to my script.
And you can see that all I simply
do is I reference that TIFF or that
image right here with the image name.
You can actually--there's
another property called Image,
and you can load your image any
other way and just simply set that.
But this is the easiest way to do that.
So we do that for that.
Now here's the new feature
in--also in Sight of Tiger.
And this is target action.
We actually couldn't
reuse the word action.
We had to call it action method.
Had some symmetry with call method,
so it was okay.
In Interface Builder,
when you wire up like a
menu item to an object,
you're actually setting up
what's called the target action.
The message is sent to the target
and it sends that particular action.
So in Studio, I can do the same thing.
I can say that when the user
clicks the compile button,
so that's the same thing.
So I can say that when the
user clicks the compile button,
so that's the same thing.
So I can say that when the
user clicks the compile button,
send this method--it's an
Objective-C method on that
object called compile script.
And it sends it to that target.
So at this point,
I don't have to do anything
else with that button.
All the code--it'll
all be handled for me.
I don't have to handle responding to
users clicking on that toolbar item.
And we do the same thing for the stop.
And we do the same thing for record.
[Transcript missing]
Sure.
You just write that script,
and we'll show how you would do that.
Okay, that would be part of that.
So let's go ahead and
look at the other types.
Now, you'll notice that for the
standard script editor stuff,
it's all doing it with target action.
But the last three that we have here,
I don't have target action.
It's the same setup for everything else,
but there is no target action.
And there's another way that we
respond to toolbar items that don't
have target actions assigned to them.
But we'll come back to
that in the next step.
And the last thing that we do is that,
what is the object again?
The window.
The tool,
the window has a property called toolbar.
We need to assign the toolbar
to the property to the window.
And we just simply say
set toolbar of the window,
or the object in this case,
to document toolbar.
So I'm going to go ahead and save this.
And we're going to choose,
click on the build and run.
and see if we made any mistakes.
It's not outside the
realm of possibilities.
It's never happened to me before.
It's un-possible.
Okay, so our application runs,
and there you go.
We've got a toolbar.
You can see that I can actually
click on... I think I've got it set.
Yeah, so I'm going to zoom in here.
And I can click on the Customize palette,
drag it around,
all the standard behaviors.
Show/Hide,
you can actually use a little trick
of clicking on the Option key,
I believe.
And we can show and hide it.
And we can actually even go ahead
into our script editor area,
type current date,
and click on the compile button.
And you can see what it
did is it used the target,
talked to the script controller,
and said compile script.
And it took care of all the code for me.
Now the cool part is I can click run.
And you'll notice that I have a result.
Again, that script controller took
care of all that work for me.
I didn't have to do a single thing.
So with almost very little code,
actually all the code
was just add the toolbar,
I can have a script editor that knows
how to do everything that script
editor does outside of saving it.
So that will take care of that section.
So let's go ahead and go back.
Quit the application.
And we'll take a look at our next step.
Okay, so what did we learn?
We learned how easy it
is to add icon resources.
They could be any image type.
I had TIFFs in this particular case.
I added a wake from nib
handler to the window so that
when that document is loaded,
I have an opportunity to
do something in my script.
Studio is really, really based on that.
It's being able to say, "Oh,
I want to know when some event happens,
when the user does something particular.
I want to know when he
clicks on something.
I want to know when he opens
something." You just need to
find the right event handler,
click on it,
and attach it to the right script,
and then you'll get called
at the appropriate times.
So we also looked to see how
easy it was to create a toolbar.
We do that in script.
And then at the last,
we talked a bit about
learning about script scopes.
Our third step is we need to wire
up the rest of the toolbar items.
So we only did the toolbar items.
So we only did the standard
script editor pieces.
We need to do the add and delete
record and the erase item.
And then we're going to hook up our table
view so it actually starts to function.
So this is what we're
going to do in this step.
We're going to modify the
wake from nib handler.
We're going to attach that
handler to yet another object.
We're going to add a click toolbar
item handler so that this will get
called whenever the user clicks
on a toolbar item that doesn't
already have a target action.
So this is where you'll respond to
something happening in your toolbar.
And then we're going to add
a selections changed handler.
We want this to be when the
user clicks on the table view,
and as they click,
we want to update the script
source out of that table view.
So we're going to wire all that
up together and then hook up the
data source behind the table view.
So let's go back to the hands-on.
Is everybody staying with me?
Doing all right?
OK, cool.
All right.
So now, hopefully I don't get lost
here in the next step.
So let's go back to our--
back into Interface Builder.
I'll actually get rid of this palette.
I don't need that.
And we are going to add an Awake
from Nib to our table view.
So again, I find it simplest.
to-- see if I can scroll over and
see both of these things at the same
time-- to just go ahead and select our
table view here in the Outline view.
It's a lot easier than trying to
double-click down into the right
view so that I know I have that.
Going to go to the Apple Script panel,
which is typically Command 8.
It isn't always, unfortunately.
So you sometimes will have to
make sure you're on the right one.
And we see that it's
already set up for that.
And I'm going to go down to the Nib
Group and click on Awake from Nib.
And we're going to assign
it to the document script.
And again, we need to make sure that the
scope is set to Nib and not global.
All right.
Let's go ahead and click Edit.
And what it does is it takes me
back to my Wake From Nib handler
and selects all the contents,
but we're actually going to add
something at the beginning of this.
And I
I get to just hit command
period and it just works for me.
You'll have to drag it in
from your outline document.
And that adds some,
it's actually a big if else state.
And I need to make sure that I have an
end if at the bottom of this handler.
So I'll go down to the bottom.
And just after the set toolbar,
I'm going to type in end if.
And then I'll compile that.
Hitting the enter key is
a shortcut for compiling.
And let's go back up
and look at the code.
So everything that's in the else
statement was what we had there before.
So we just put a big if
block up before that.
And we use a technique that
also is very common in Studio.
Since we actually don't get a
different handler for each object,
it's using the same handler name.
It's awake from nib.
All of the awake from nibs go to this
handler that's attached to that script.
So what you do is you get
the name of the object.
That's why it's important to name it.
And the first thing we check is we say
if the name is equal to script table.
That way we know that this particular
object that's being called for the
awake from nib is the script table.
And we again use our reference.
Now, you don't have that reference.
I do as I was showing the new technique.
But you'll have that there.
And we create a new data source.
And we do that by simply
saying set up our reference,
which happens again to be data source,
to make new data source at the end of
data sources with the property name.
So I actually, once I create this,
I can always access that particular
data source by using it by name.
Now, the next thing we do is
create all the data columns.
And we make a new data column at the
end of data columns of data source.
Data columns is an
element of data source,
and with some various properties.
And you'll notice some similarities.
We've named each data column to
match the name of each table column.
So if you misnamed these,
they won't be able to find each other,
and you'll have data that won't
show up in a particular column.
So that's a typical thing.
So when you build and
run your application,
you notice that there's a column.
If you have a column missing its data,
that's a good clue.
Go make sure that you've created
the data column with the same
name as the table column.
And actually, in Tiger,
it's even simpler than this.
You don't actually have
to create a data source,
and you don't have to
create the data columns.
If you have a list of records,
an AppleScript list of records,
or even a list of lists,
you can simply say,
set content of table view
to that list of records.
And it will create the data source.
It creates all the data columns
and all the data rows and
all the data cells for you.
So one call can populate
the entire table view.
And we're actually going to see
how that works a little later.
And I do this for all
of the data columns.
So I have five of them.
I have the script date, script name,
script source, script result,
and script comments.
Now, we actually want this
data source to be sorted.
We want to be able to click
on the various table columns
and change the sort order,
so we have to tell the data source
that it's going to be sorted.
By default, it's false.
We turn it to true.
We want to set the current
sort column of the data source
to the script date column.
So we're going to use the first
column for our initial sort column.
And then again, as we've done before,
we simply assign the data source,
and the object represents
What does it represent this time?
In this case, it's the table view.
So we're in the else block,
or the if block, for the table view.
So the object is the table view.
So we're setting the data source
of the table view to this data
source that we just created.
And the rest of this code is the same.
We didn't change it.
We just simply put it in an end if.
Okay, so that takes care of our--
setting up the data source.
Now we need to actually add a
couple more functions down here.
So let's go to our handlers.
So I'm going to go and I'm going to add--
I missed one.
Oh, yes, this is the click handler.
Let's go back to Interface Builder.
And we're going to select
back to our window.
What we need to do is we need to add the
handler that's the toolbar click handler
so that when users click on a toolbar
item that doesn't have a target action,
it'll get called.
So I select my window,
go into AppleScript,
and this is actually new for Tiger.
There's a group here called toolbar.
And there's one called click
toolbar item and another one
called update toolbar item.
We're simply going to work
with the click toolbar item.
It's already attached with a document.
This particular window is already
attached to the document script.
And it already has script
set to scope to nib.
So I'm going to go ahead and save that.
And it just means that I have
changes left over there.
I'll go ahead and accept that.
And I'm going to click the edit
button to take me back to the code.
And you can see that, again,
it added the handler for me.
I didn't have to remember what that was.
And in this case,
I'm going to have to go back
one step and paste that code.
[Transcript missing]
Okay.
I'll scroll down here a little further.
This is all the finished code.
And add record.
And here, once again,
you'll see that in the
code that you have,
I have this bit of code.
I wish it was an easier
way to show this together.
Let me compile that and resize this.
[Transcript missing]
and I think I have all of my code,
and you should have those three.
You should have those three.
You should have add record,
delete record,
and that last one I just showed
you should be in your script.
We'll save that and build and go.
And what we should be able to
do now is run our application.
I'm going to type in current date,
compile it, run it.
And if all is going well,
I click the Add Record,
it added the record.
So there I go.
It's just that simple.
I'm going to go ahead
and type front window.
[Transcript missing]
And I can also check to make
sure the Erase button is working,
so that just erases my script view.
So that takes care of that step.
All right,
so what did we learn in step three?
We showed how easy it was to implement
the click toolbar item handler so
that you can respond to toolbar items
that don't have a target action.
And then we showed you how easy
it was to create a data source.
And as I explained,
it's actually simpler than
what I even have in my example.
Okay, we're on to step four.
We're closing in on the home stretch,
and we're doing good on time,
it looks like.
So let's look at how
to save the document.
So we want to be able to save
what's in the script view,
and we want to save out all of the
records that are in that table view.
And then we're also going to
turn on the column sorting so
that we can sort our table view.
So we're going to implement the
data representation handlers.
There's two of them,
and we're going to talk
about them in just a moment.
And then we're going to have a handler
so that it responds to the user
clicking on a column in our table view,
and that's called the
column clicked handler.
And then we're going to turn
on some sort indicators.
It's very simple to do
now in Tiger as well.
So let's go back to our demo.
I'm going to quit the ScriptView.
And let's see.
What we need to do is go back into
our Document Nib in Interface Builder.
Now, by default,
all of our templates are still
built to work on the oldest--
clear back to like 10.1 and 10.2.
So it's set to be global by default,
because that's a new feature in Tiger.
So what you want to do is
select our document object,
which back here in the icon
view is the Files Owner.
Sometimes that's one other
reason I like the outline view.
It's much more obvious what that is.
It's the document object.
And it already has two
handlers associated with it.
And they're in the document group.
And they're both on by
default in this template.
One is called Data Representation,
and the other one's called
Load Data Representation.
And you can see that the problem
here is it's set to global,
and our act would not work
correctly if it was trying to
reference the wrong script.
So I'm going to switch that to Scope Nib.
Now, on yours,
you will just leave it global,
and it'll just work fine
for purposes of the demo.
Let's go ahead and then look at that.
And we'll implement those handlers.
My drive falls asleep in between.
All right, let's go here and implement
the data representation.
Now, this data representation handler
is the handler that gets called
by AppleScript Studio when it's
time to save your document.
And what it's asking it for is,
what data do you want me to
store onto the file for you?
And so you can simply return an
AppleScript structure of any type,
and we'll take that data.
And Studio takes care of actually
putting the bits out onto disk.
And so I'm going to go
ahead and implement that.
Hopefully, let's see.
Oh, actually, we missed one.
We're going to have to go back.
I'm going to jump ahead one and
implement the data representation.
And what it does is it
gets some information.
Again,
it gets the content of the data source.
Again, if we compare this to
the code that you have,
it should be here.
And let's go up to the
data representation.
You can see it's actually
quite a bit more code.
Again, it's this verbose instance.
But what it's doing here
is that before Tiger,
what you had to do is if you
wanted to get that data source,
and all the data out of it,
you had to say contents of
every data cell of every
data row of the data source.
And that would, in essence,
build up this list of records for you.
With Tiger,
it's just as simple as saying,
give me the content of that data source.
And it will do that much faster for you.
We're also going to keep track of
what current sort column we have so
that the sort column will be kept
track of when we save our document.
We get the content of the script view.
So whatever happens to be in the
script view at the time we save,
we want to save that out in our document.
And it would actually be nice if
we saved the bounds of the window.
So wherever the user resized
and positioned their window,
we'll save those bounds and
then we'll restore it so when
they open their document,
it'll put it back to where it was before.
And then what we do is construct
a simple Apple script record
that has the table view data.
It has the name of the sort column,
the source, and the window bounds.
And then you simply return that
as the result of this handler.
Studio takes that data,
streams it out to disk for you.
So then when it comes time for
the user to open your document,
it's going to call the load data
representation handler and we're
going to implement that one.
And let's see what this does.
And what it does is what's passed
into this is the exact same data.
So you see where the with data is?
That is this data.
It reads it in exactly in the same
format that you gave it to Studio,
and it gives it back to you
in the with data object.
And so it's just a matter of
pulling out the bits and pieces
out of that data that we want.
So to set up the sort column,
I get the sort column of the data source
to the data column that had that name,
sort column name of with data.
So you can see that that
was stored right here.
Sort column name was in that object.
We just pull it back out.
Same thing for the script view.
We set the content of the script
view to the script source.
We set the bounds of the window to
the window bounds that we've saved.
And here again,
this is the real power in Tiger.
I didn't have to make and go through
the data source and go through and say,
okay, for every data row,
I need to make a new data
row for every data cell,
create a new data cell.
I simply say set content of the data
source to the data that I saved.
I saved out before and it
constructs everything for you.
It sets up all the data columns and
all the data cells and it's very fast.
And so the last thing we return
is whether or not this succeeded.
So if there was some error here,
you would return false and you
would get the standard alert at
the end of the application or when
you try to open your document.
All right, so that takes care of
the data representation.
Let's go ahead and add sorting.
Actually, let's go ahead and run this.
Build and go.
And again, we go through the process
of typing in some script,
executing.
I'll do another one for front window.
All right.
Oh, I forgot to click Add Record.
It might help if I do that.
Current date.
And let's go ahead and
run and add that record.
So now I actually have two
items in my table view.
And just to make sure
everything's working well,
I'm going to reposition this window.
Let's put it way over here.
And I'm going to make it a little bigger.
And I'm going to go to the Save menu,
or File menu, and choose Save.
And we're going to just
save it on the desktop,
and I'm going to call it Sample.
And save that.
And you see that it
actually gave it a title.
If I close the window,
go to the File menu,
and go to the Open Recent and
choose my sample,
you can see that it actually
loaded the document back up.
I get my source that was
currently in the view.
And I get all the various records
that I had in the document.
And it also remembered the window
bounds where the document was located.
Now one thing we skipped and
missed is the fact that when
you click on this table view,
it should be updating the script source.
We missed that step.
So we need to go back and add that.
So let's go and quit the
script view at the moment.
We'll go back to Interface Builder.
And we want to select our table view.
Again, I'll go to the Outline view
in the project window here,
select Table View.
And I want to know when
the selection has changed.
That's in the Data View group
over in our AppleScript Inspector.
And there's one called Selection Changed.
And I'm going to save that.
And while we're in here,
let's go ahead and add the handler
for our table view so that we'll know
when a user clicks on the column.
So I'm going to select that as well.
And again, it's in the Data View.
And there's one called Column Clicked.
Save that.
And let's go Edit and fill these out.
So for the Column Clicked-- let's
see if I get the right one here.
Nope.
Yep, that was correct.
Let's fill out that handler.
Now, whenever the user clicks
on a table column,
what they're indicating is they're going
to change which one is being sorted on,
and if they click on the same one,
they're just changing the order
from ascending to descending.
And so that's all that this code does.
This is very standard code.
You could actually just copy-paste
this code any time you need to do
this sorting in your table view.
Hopefully in a future version we'll
actually just take care of this for you,
so you don't even have
to put this code in.
It'll just handle it.
But for now, you just copy it out
of any of the examples.
It's all the same.
And we get the name.
We check to see if it's
the same sort column.
If it's not,
we're going to switch the sort column.
Otherwise,
we're just changing the sort order,
and we just update the object,
which happens to be the table view.
Now,
the other one that we needed to fill out
that we missed was the selection change.
This is whenever the user
clicks in the table view,
we need to update the
contents of the script view.
And that one was way back up here,
so we missed that quite early.
Put that in.
And all it does is whenever the
user clicks in the table view,
we set that to the table view.
And we set the content of the
result view to an empty string.
And we grab out of our data source
the data cell called script source.
Remember, we have a column in our data
source for the script source.
So we go get the value out of that,
and then we simply stick it
in the script view by saying
set content of script view.
All right.
Now, the one last thing we need
to do for our sorting is to
actually add our sort indicators.
And if you go back up
into the Wake from Nib,
and in the first if block,
just after you set the data source,
It's just a matter of turning
on our indicator by doing this.
Turn on the sort indicators.
And it's the property called
useSortIndicators of tableView.
And we just simply set that to true.
And that puts the little triangle and
keeps track of whether it's ascending
or descending order in the sort.
And we don't have to worry
about trying to set that before,
which you had to do that before, Tiger,
if you actually wanted sort indicators.
So let's build and run this
application and see how we're doing.
So once again, actually to save time,
I'm just going to go and open
up the existing sample so
I don't have to type it again.
And you'll see that it actually
has the sort indicator turned on.
And as I click on that,
it's changing the sort order.
And I can change which column
I want to be the primary sort.
So sorting is very simple to do.
Okay.
Let's go ahead and look
at the last step here.
and what we did before.
So I showed you how to implement
the data representation handlers.
So any document-based applications,
you need to fill those out.
It's very simple.
Simply get the data you want to save,
return it in the data
representation handler.
And if you want-- and
when the document is open,
you'll just implement the
load data representation.
And you're given your data back.
And you can populate your UI from that.
And we also showed you how to add
column sorting in your table view.
Now the last thing we're going
to look at is how to debug
ScriptView and add a creator code.
So if you're using Xcode 2.1,
we're going to show the fact that
we actually use the new action
breakpoints or breakpoint actions.
And then we're going to set
the creator code in this step.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Now, this one you can actually
go ahead and grab step five.
So I'm actually going to close the
existing application or my project.
And I'm going to go to my sources.
And I'm going to grab step
five in the script view.
And open up-- now,
if you're using Xcode 2.0,
you have to use the .Xcode project.
If you're using 2.1,
you'll open up the Xcode Proj project.
So I'm going to go ahead and open
up the script view Xcode Proj,
because I can show the
breakpoint actions,
which is a new feature in Tiger.
If you are using 2.0, that's OK.
We'll still be able to debug.
You just won't have those actions.
So I'm going to go ahead
and build and run this.
I'm actually going to clean,
just to make sure that since it's
all been the same project name,
I'm going to just clean everything out.
And you can do that by choosing
it under the build menu,
clean or clean all targets.
And then I'm going to go ahead and
just build the application and run it.
And you'll notice that the
first thing I get is an error.
So the document window
hasn't come up yet.
I've got this really,
really very informational error here.
Everybody understands what
NSReceiverEvaluationScriptError means,
right?
Steve has documented it well,
so you can sort of get a
hint in the documentation.
He does explain what all these are.
We hope that it's actually
a long-standing problem.
We need to address that,
and hopefully they'll be able to
take that and have a much more
informative error message there.
But what we have now is
the document does come up,
but in essence,
something's not going to work very well.
So let's go ahead and quit
that and go back to Xcode,
and we're going to debug this to
figure out what the problem is.
So back in Xcode,
I click on my scripts group,
select my document, AppleScript,
and we're going to go
down to the Wake From Nib.
Let's make this a little wider,
easier to see, and zoom that up.
And I'm going to go to
the Wake From Nib handler.
Now, this is a good place to start,
because it was very
early in the app launch.
It was also very early
before the document came up.
So Wake From Nib is a very good
place to start to debug this process.
So I'm going to put a breakpoint here.
Now, actually, so for those of Xcode 2.0,
you just simply click on the code.
You just click on the column over here
on the left and put your breakpoint on.
If you're using Xcode 2.1,
you can hold down the control
key on that breakpoint,
and you can say edit breakpoint.
And you get this new breakpoints UI.
And I'll zoom this up so you
can see it a little better.
And you can see that it's now put a
breakpoint on Awake from Nib on line 79.
And if I click this-- and it has
a little bit of an Automator UI--
The dogs, they stole our UI.
That's okay.
So what we can actually choose is
different types of break actions,
so when it hits this break point,
we can have it do
something very interesting.
So as Todd also demonstrated this,
I'm going to pick the AppleScript,
and I can actually enter
an AppleScript here,
and it will execute when that
break point is hit in the debugger.
So I'm going to just simply do
what I might have actually typed,
for those of you debugging
in other methods,
back in the code itself.
I might say display dialog away from
nibs so I know that I got to this point.
And I'll compile that, and test it.
Looks fine.
So that looks good.
I'm just going to collapse.
Oh, I just deleted it, is what I did.
So I'll do this again.
It was going so well.
No, it's no problem.
Display dialog.
Actually, I've got to talk to him and put
the actual script view here and
not just the simple text view.
That would be logical, right?
[Transcript missing]
And if I go ahead and click continue,
and just one note in that
is if there's a checkbox,
and if I say continue
and put it in there,
it won't even stop in the breakpoint.
What it does is it does the
action and then continues.
So if you have some tight loop
and you don't want to have to
keep stepping in the debugger,
you can just have it repeat the action,
and it just continues running for you.
But in this case,
the default is not that.
It's going to stop in
the debugger for us.
And so here I've got my debugger window.
And it stopped on the
AwakeFromNib handler.
And we stepped on the first line,
and we actually have
different things here.
We have all of our variables are global.
So there's pi as represented here.
These are all the AppleScript globals,
which I always find it funny I could
actually go in and redefine pi.
Or the number of minutes.
If I'm a little late for work,
you can put that to be 80
minutes or something like that.
It's probably not a good
idea to change your globals.
But it does show the various
properties that are in my script.
So in this case,
we haven't assigned any of the
properties that I had before,
like a result view or script view.
And then at last,
it shows the local variables.
In this case, we actually get to find
out what the object is.
So we know this time, when the Awake from
Nib handler is called,
that it's the window that's being passed.
So we're going to step.
And we'll step over to the next line.
And it's going to check the name.
And it's not that name.
And it goes down.
And it goes into the else statement.
It's going to create our toolbar,
which is the right path.
That looks good.
So I don't think there's any error there.
So I'm going to continue.
And once again, the breakpoint is hit.
Because Awake from Nib,
we also attach to the table view.
And again, it triggers my action.
It tells me I'm here.
I could have had it say something,
for instance,
or other interesting things.
And I've stepped back into the code,
stopped at the first line.
And it's going to check the name.
And so I can see that-- oh,
the object is the table view.
We've got the right object.
And the name is script table.
And so it's going to compare
the name is equal to scriptable.
There we go.
So we missed a variable, a letter.
We actually need that to be script table.
So I'm going to stop that.
Because that's pretty obvious that
that's going to be the problem.
And I'm just going to go ahead and
build and run this just for brevity.
Let's zoom back up.
And there was no error.
So that took care of that error.
So I'm going to open up my
document that I saved before.
And there's actually another bug in here.
And I'm going to show you another
technique that's very common in
debugging your Studio applications.
And that's if I click on here.
I can click on the name.
I can click on the result.
But when I click on source,
that's a little better error.
It says that the variable,
the column name is not defined.
So at least it wasn't any
of those NS receiver errors.
But obviously, something is wrong.
Now, with the application still running,
what I'm going to do is I'm
going to launch script editor.
Because again,
Studio is a scriptable application,
albeit at the view level.
But it's still-- the code that
I write is the same code I can access
from the outside of the environment.
And I can go back to my demo
monkey and grab this bit of code.
So it saves me the trouble of typing it.
And what it does is it talks
to the script view application,
which is running, by doing a tell block.
And I get a reference to my table view.
Again, I have to drill down because
I'm doing it from the outside.
And what I want to do is I want to
get the name of every table column.
Is that a little suspect?
Maybe I didn't have that,
because we mentioned before if
the name is misspelled or missing,
it's going to cause a problem.
So I'm going to go ahead and run that.
And it's a little hard to see here,
but down at the bottom,
you actually see it
returns a list of strings.
And we've got script date.
We have script name.
There.
You can quit the application.
Go back into interface builder.
Or actually, we have to go back into
Xcode and find our resources.
And drag this down.
Well, if I time this just right,
you won't be able to
ask me any questions.
This will be good.
Resources.
Yeah, that would be nice to
have patch and continue,
you know, build and continue.
It's interesting suggestion.
Let's,
so I'm gonna go in here and I'm gonna
look at the various variables here.
Bring up my Apple Script panel
and I can see that I have
script date on the first one.
I have script name, but certainly,
there we go.
It's missing the script source.
So if I add that,
I wouldn't spell it correctly.
I'd have to debug it twice.
Let's say that.
Go back in here, build and run.
Open up our existing example
and let's go ahead and you can
see there as I click on date,
looks good.
And source, everything's working.
Okay, cool.
Well, we're short on time,
so I'm gonna skip
setting the creator code,
but let's wrap this up here.
So, what did we learn today?
AppleScript Studio is a very
powerful technology inside of,
and we've enhanced it for
Tiger to make it easier for you,
much more powerful,
better performance in areas.
So that's all built under this
framework called AppleScript Kit.
It has the better table view support,
data sources,
and adds things like toolbars.
We've also used OSA Kit,
another public framework that
we've introduced in Tiger that
provides a script view,
script controller,
so there may be a need in your
application to have a simple little
script editor that you can use.
It's very simple to do.
You can do it almost with no code.
So, what did we learn today?
AppleScript Studio is a very
powerful technology inside of,
and we've enhanced it for
Tiger to make it easier for you,
much more powerful,
better performance in areas.
So that's all built under this
framework called AppleScript Studio.
So, what did we learn today?
AppleScript Studio is a very
powerful technology inside of,
and we've enhanced it for
Tiger to make it easier for you,
much more powerful,
better performance in areas.
So that's all built under this
framework called AppleScript Studio.
because there's quite a community there,
and people are very helpful.
And thank you very much for those of
you that take time to respond and help.
And with that all, we've got 10 seconds.
So do we want to-- we'll take a couple.
See if we can get away
with doing a couple.
So I'll bring up John Montreon
for questions and answers.
And oh, yes, they've stuck in,
so I don't have to mention.
And please give us
feedback at that location.
Drew's too?